Document ignore_invalidation_older_than (#307)
timescale/docs.timescale.com-content: using-timescaledb/continuous-aggregates.md

data processed by previous jobs will be available even before the
materialization is fully caught up.

> The `timescaledb.ignore_invalidation_older_than` parameter control how

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `timescaledb.ignore_invalidation_older_than` parameter controls how
```

Author: Done.

> The `timescaledb.ignore_invalidation_older_than` parameter control how

Reviewer: Should we add a new subsection here:  "More ways to control continuous aggregate?" or something similar. Then add ignore_invalidation_older_than and the parameter from Sven's JIT aggregates in this scetion.

Author: We probably need an additional section for JIT, yes, but I should add that as a separate PR.

adding records with an old timestamp will trigger update of the
continuous aggregate. An update that is older than this parameter will
not trigger an update so, for example, setting the parameter to "1
month" will ensure that any update for a record that is older than 1
month will not trigger an update of the view.

> 

Reviewer: we should also add a note here about how this affects data retention. Is that documented anywhere else? (maybe a link to drop_chunks_policy or material from a  blog).

Reviewer: ok, lets do this when we add the section to data-retention.md. Need an example on how to do data retention for continuous aggregates as part of that section.

Author: I will add a section as a separate PR.

Author: It is available in https://github.com/timescale/docs.timescale.com-content/pull/314

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By default, all invalidations are processed. When ignore_invalidation_older_than is specified, the view is freed from the underlying data, thus allowing those data points to exist as they are in the continuous aggregate without worrying about changes to the data invalidating the view. As a result, refresh jobs will complete faster since they are only dealing with new data as part of the refresh, and you will also have the option to implement a data retention policy. <link to data retention policy section>
```
(adapted from blog material).

Author: This is incredibly hard to read:

> By default, all invalidations are processed. When `ignore_invalidation_older_than` is specified, the view is freed from the underlying data, thus allowing those data points to exist as they are in the continuous aggregate without worrying about changes to the data invalidating the view.

What does it mean to be "freed from the underlying data"? What does it mean for a data point to "exist as they are"? It is not clear what an "invalidation" is, it is not described earlier in the text.

Going to try with some other rewrite.

Author: For the second part:

> As a result, refresh jobs will complete faster since they are only dealing with new data as part of the refresh, and you will also have the option to implement a data retention policy. <link to data retention policy section>

What does it mean to have the "option to implement a data retention policy"? Can you not use that if you do not set a value for `ignore_invalidation_older_than`, or is it just that it does not make sense?

Author: Rewrote to something. PTAL.

Author: Rewritten and some clarifications in other threads. Resolving.

data processed by previous jobs will be available even before the
materialization is fully caught up.

The `timescaledb.ignore_invalidation_older_than` parameter controls
how modifications (inserts, updates, and deletes) will trigger update
of the continuous aggregate. If modifications are done to the

> underlying table (or tables), it invalidates the already computed

Reviewer: ```suggestion
underlying table, it invalidates the already computed
```
cont. aggregate can be defined only on a single hypertable.

> aggregate and the aggregate has to be recomputed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
aggregate and the aggregate has to be updated.
```
we only have to update the invalidated portion.

By default, all modifications trigger a recompute of the continuous
aggregate. If the `ignore_invalidation_older_than` parameter is set to
a duration, modifications with a timestamp that is older will be

> ignored and not trigger a recompute of the continuous aggregate.

Reviewer: Like the rewrite here.
```suggestion
ignored and not trigger an update of the continuous aggregate.
```

As a result, refresh jobs will complete faster since they are only
dealing with new data as part of the refresh.

> If setting `ignore_invalidation_older_than` you need to consider if

Reviewer: Data retention policies for hyperatbles are affected by continuous aggregates. Say you have a raw table and a cont agg defned on it. If the hypertable has drop chunks wants to drop chunks older than 1 month, then the ignore_invalidation-older_than parameter for cont. aggregates that are dependent on it should be 1 month. So dropping the raw data does not affect the continuous aggregate. (I think the detailed explanation can wait for the data retention policy PR. But adding a link here to data retention doc is probably useful).

Author: This sounds dangerous, should we not disallow dropping chunks if it can affect a continuous aggregate? Need to have a good error message as well.

Reviewer: We check if there are cont. aggregates dependent on the chunk before it can be dropped. Errors, otherwise.

Author: Maybe that should be mentioned in the documentation?

Author: I'll add this to the data retention PR.

> the data retention policy need to be updated. For more information on

Reviewer: So I would rephrase this as (or  a variation).
```suggestion
Often users would like to drop the raw data from the hypertable and just keep the downsampled data in the continuous aggregate. You can do this by using the invalidation-older_than setting of the continuous aggregate. For e.g. by setting the invalidation_older_than parameter to 1 month, we are saying that continuous aggregate will not be modified for any changes older than 1 month. So a user can drop_chunks from the hypertable that is older than 1 month and still retain the downsampled data in the continuous aggregate. You cna read more about data retention <here>.
```
